XXX1
In today's class, Professor Iqbal gave us a detailed introduction on why data science is important in this data-driven world and how we can equip ourselves with data science skills. As the big data analytics industry emerge, data science contributes to a great amount of GDP. As a result, the demand for skilled data scientists are surging rapidly. However, big data talent is rare. The shortage of data scientists is becoming a serious constraint in some sectors. It is estimated by MGI that by 2018 the United States will experience a shortage of 190,000 skilled data scientists, and 1.5 million managers and analysts who are capable of reaping actionable insights from the big data deluge. Schools are now offering more and more data science programs to meet the high demand for data scientists in various fields, including retail, manufacturing, health care, and government services. Although new opportunities have arisen, we also need to keep updating our existing data analysis skills to keep in step with the fast growing big data era. Data science is an interdisciplinary filed including both computer science and statistics. We need to equip ourselves with hacking skills, math and statistics knowledge, as well as substantive expertise. To be more specific, we need to know computers and software programming, mathematics and probability theory, as well as substantive and domain expertise and social psychology. Meanwhile, the job is not as cool as what we have in common perception. In fact, a data scientist spend a great amount of time just cleaning data. After that, we explore the data by building up models and then making forecast. In short, what abilities make a data scientist successful? That should be a combination of hacking skills, analytical skills, communication skills, and advising abilities. And this course will help us build up a solid basis for working with data and for exploring the discipline, including collection, visualization, analysis, and processing of big data  

XXX2
Today's class mainly focused on the introduction to the application of big data analysis in real world, as well as the course contents that will be covered throughout this quarter.  In this class, I learned that now there is a huge demand for data scientists in the job market, compared to a few years ago. The demand for data scientists exists in a wide variety of areas, including economics. However, being a data analyst may not be doing the work as we image. On the contrary, as professor mentioned in class, that data scientists are actually devoting a huge amount time to data clearing, instead of doing the actual data analysis. Moreover, we also learned that to be a good data analyst, the most important thing is not a college degree, but instead being proficient in the data analysis applications, which require a lot of real world practice. During the class activity section, our group spent about 25 minutes in finding the similarity and dissimilarity among human beings.  We first came out with the application, which aims at grouping 50 students into 25 couples to be deskmates in a classroom. We decided totally six attributes to determine the distance between the two person in each couple, which are GPA, heights, gender, personalities, eyesight and racial. And the distance formula is calculated by the squared roots of the sum of squares of each difference. We also listened other groups' application ideas. Some fo them were very interesting, such as the group people according to their movie preferences, and determining the roommates in terms of their similarities.  Moreover, after the class activities, professor also discussed the outline of the course contents for the entire quarter. There are totally five modules each will take two weeks to learn. I also remembered that as the professor said, learning python in this class requires me to do a lot of practices by myself, other than simply learning from the class.   

XXX3
During our first class, I learned about the large field of data science. One of the best ways to characterize the data science umbrella of skills is the Venn Diagram which has three circles: one for coding skills, one for mathematics and statistics theory, and one for domain expertise such as sociology or economics. Economist traditionally fit into the category of domain expertise, but this has been changing over time. Economist are more frequently being trained in econometrics, math and statistics, and programming. This leads us to believe that Economist have a chance to become great data scientists. The reality of data science is not like The Minority Report, but more like ensuring data quality, transforming data, and storing data. If an organization were to group data science and data engineering together as one role, most of the time is spent on data engineering. The actual predictions and analysis can only happen if the data is in a useable state. From first hand experience, I have seen data science and data engineering split up into two teams. However, the data science team still brought on their own data engineer to help with all of the ETL data work that had to be done. Module 1 will give us a good introduction to data science and exploratory analysis. During the first class, we did not cover any technical details, but rather just an overview of the course and what data science is. I am looking forward to learning the nitty gritty aspects of data science. My main areas of interest are artificial intelligence and machine & deep learning. I have previous experience in data processing, but have not used Hadoop before and would be interested in learning it since it is an industry standard. Using the example of eHarmony's matching algorithm reminded me of a video I saw on OKCupid's matching: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m9PiPlRuy6E. This video explains how OKCupid uses a ranking system for importance such that users can rank their preferences in a parter. If person A sets their preference for parters who do not smoke as very important, then it will weigh this option more heavily than if Person A ranked it only as somewhat important  

XXX4
In the first week's class, we introduce ourselves and the reason of picking this class. After that, Dr. Rashed Iqbal introduced the main contents of the class. I felt really interested in the job market and how to become a data scientist. I also found examples and case studies would be really interesting and would help me a lot to learn Python.  Then, Dr. Rashed Iqbal told us something about market for data science professionals. He gave us a brief introduction of Morgan Stanley, Ironwood, Airbnb. After that, he discussed the relationship between economy and data science.  I regard the brief introduction of the demand for data science as the most interesting part of this class. I keep believing that the truth of the world and our society is behind data which we can hardly measure and understand before the use of analyze programs. With R, Python and other computer languages, we can discover that truth and help the society grow nowadays.  After that, I found out my project group and began the class activity of determining the application measuring the similarity between different people. I found out this progression really interesting and helpful as I can discuss topics with others and understand their unique thoughts. In our application, we are dividing a class of students into groups of four. We have information on students' GPA last semester, and the graduate courses they have taken. We need a formula to evaluate the difference in skill levels between students. We discussed a lot and finish the work together.  With the introduction of modules of the course, I really look forward to machine learning and deep learning as this will be the future of computer science. I know nothing about sentiment analysis and data visualization before the class. Now I'm really interested in these two area and feel it significant to become a data scientist in the future.    

XXX5
In first class, I realized a new field - data science. My undergraduate major is finance, but my graduate major is applied economics. I have no idea what kind of job I coulddo after graduation. AndI have confusedabout it for a lot of time. Luckily, after this class, I found a bright future market for me to explore. Nowadays, there are increasingly companies that are hiring an amount of data scientists. According to MGI's research, by 2018 the United States will experience a shortage of 190,000 skilled data scientists, and 1.5 million managers and analysts capable of reaping actionable insights from the big data deluge. It is definitely a good opportunity for graduate students to pursue a job as a data analyst, especially for economists. Here are four reasons why economists make great data scientists. First, economists already know machine learning. The economists have a deeper understanding of leaner regression than the average data scientist, which would greatly support you doing statistical research. Second, economists have higher standards. They can deeply analyze every complicated model and clearly explain the effects behind every model and phenomenon. Third, economists actually know how to write coherent sentences. As an academic researcher, economists can be good at presentation and writing, which are the important parts in data science field. Last, economists would be easier to learn Python than others who have no coding experiences. In conclusion, if you were a good economist, it would be easier for you to be a good data scientist.  In this course, I would learn the machine learning - one of the important tools to analyze big data. And in the meantime, I could learn how to use Python to deal with different models. These are what a data scientist necessarily needs. Combined with the economic knowledge and analytical ways I learned from last two quarters, I would be more confident and more  competitive in finding a job as a data scientist  

XXX6
In the first lesson, Professor first let us introduce ourselves and talk about why we choose this course.  Most of us have a relatively weak basis of Python and programming and thus eager to learn more about this useful tool. What's more, we found data science and programming skills become increasingly important in nowadays world, or to say, data analytic skills become indispensible if we want to thrive in our future career. Therefore, I wish I can learn as much as I could in this course and make the most out of it.  The Professor also stress heavily on the importance of data science. He show us several Job Posts of famous company like Morgan Stanley and Amazon to show the increasing market demand for data scientists. He also mentioned that becoming a data scientist may be rewarded by a much higher income. However, instead of being encouraged, I somehow felt that I made a wrong investment in my time - I should have started learning programming and honing my computer skills much earlier. Lack of data analytic skills may hugely hamper my pursuit in career and I have to work hard to overcome my shortage as soon as possible.  My favorite part of the lesson is the class activity: grouping people. We were divided into groups and asked to determine similarity and dissimilarity between two people and try to group people to maximize their satisfactory. Our team was working on a specific application - University housing distribution. The thing I learned from this activity is that: What kind of people you are and what kind of people you want to be around are different issue. Similarity of two persons is not necessarily means that they are the best option for each others. An introvert may not be happier to be with another introvert than to be with an extrovert. Just as the example of dating website, it is a very complex process even for the top data scientist to develop a formula to form the best suit pairs.   Finally, the professor show us some Venn diagrams of skill sets we need to acquire in order to become a truly data scientist. Math and statistics knowledge, hacking skills and substantive expertise are all indispensible elements. What I am confident with is my mathematics and my domain expertise, while my short end is the computer and software programming skills.   

XXX7
The first class is a brief introduction to data scientist and this course.  From a lot of recruitment ads of MS, Airbnb, Amazon, we know that more and more companies want to hire data scientists and there is a huge shortage of skilled data scientists in the United States. MGI's research shows the value of data analytics in increasing annual GDP in many fields and industries like retail and manufacturing. Harvard Business Review tells that data scientist is the sexiest job in the 21st century. In one word, data science has become more and more important and valuable in the near future and the demands for related jobs are booming.  Taking a job as data scientist actually doesn't call for any specific major but depends on what we can do and how we can solve those problems. However, economists are better qualified for this job as they have special econometric sense while others, who major in math, statistics, don't have. Economist know more about the hidden relationships among large number of data.  Being a data scientist may not feel like a movie star but more like using toothbrush cleaning bunch of data, which may sound like boring but that is what data scientists actually do. To be a good scientist we need to get three points: 1. Computer and software programming skills; 2. Mathematics and probability theory; 3. Substantive and domain expertise and social psychology.  What's more, we have a group discussion on how to measure the similarity between any two people. Our group chose the topic about assign two people in one dormitory. We thought about religions, age, smoking preference and so on and we also talked about the how to uses this information to set a formula for distance. There are different types of definitions of distance. At last, we took a preliminary test on probability and programming.  

XXX8
At the beginning of today's class, everyone introduced himself. After listening to every classmates' thoughts, I found it would be exciting to study together with people having a same goal as you learning something about the big data. After self-introduction, topics such as the definitions of big data and data science and their differences, job market for data scientists focusing on economics, and demand for data scientists are covered in the class. Among those topics, the latter two deeply impressed me. For the first topic, since most of us will enter to job market after graduating, finding a job that matches our major is an urgent issue. The job examples shown in the class brought me thoughts on the job directions I could dig on, but doubts and concerns still stay in my mind. For me, I will go back to China after graduation, so currently I pay more attentions on jobs in Shanghai, China. My concern, the most important one, about the jobs regarding to big data is that most companies prefer people with work experience that is also shown in the job descriptions of the U.S. examples given in the class. For the second one, a qualified data scientist not only has a good command of programming skills, but also is good at mathematics as well as substantial knowledge in a specific field. I remembered that there were three circles shown in the Venn diagram in the class, each representing mathematical knowledge, computer science skills, and substantial knowledge such as social science. Only when you acquire all of three types of knowledge could you is qualified for a data scientist basically. In addition, we also had a group discussion about Define similarity measures for human resemblance. At first, I was not fully understanding the question, but with the help of group members, we gradually figured out the problem. In this process, what I learned is the logical thinking. It seemed a complicated problem at the beginning, but when we think it in a logical way, step-by-step, from the problem statement, the attributes we need, to the goal we achieve, the solution would gradually come out. Last but not least, honestly I hope this course could help me to develop some concrete data mining and analyzing skills that could make me become more competitive in the job market  

XXX9
Most of us have a weak basis of Python and our purposes are either to learn more about programming with python or big data. Some of us should learn python themselves in order to survive in this course.  Then we were re-confirmed that programming become more and more vital for employees nowadays, no matter what industry you are working in. Traditionally, macroeconomists (at least for lecturers in our last two quarters) do not use big data a lot. Actually, I have never felt so nervous and regretful about the fact I did really not put much attention on coding. Thanks to Prof. Iqbal, who emphasized the importance of learning data science, I know I should try to make this up even it is too late. Several jobs posted by Morgan Stanley and Amazon indicated that even now, economists, who can master data science, can find their places in the top companies. And another benefit of becoming a data scientist is relative higher payment, which can compensate the boring part of data scientists' job.  Data scientists should master multidisciplinary knowledge in the fields of mathematic and probability theory, computer and software programming, and substantive and domain expertise. One with only two fields knowledge will be either an obsolete person or a model without any real-life experience. Economists, are likely to be replaced by robots if they stop learning new stuff. Only with all three fields of knowledge, one can have a promising future.  In the class activity session, we were assigned into different groups and each group was asked to determine how two human being may be similar or dissimilar under different application. The specific application of our team is allocating desk-mates for a middle school class. Our aim is to pair students in order to maximize their satisfactory. We need to consider many aspects, for example, height and eyesight of different students and whether they could get along well with each others. With the logic that shorter and near-sighted students may be affected if sit behind taller students or at the end of the classroom, it's easy to allocate students. However, it's much more difficult when considering whether they could get along well with each other. Grouping people is such a complex process - even if the subjective things such as height and eyesight can be controlled, it is hard to distinguish persons' personalities and match people by their characteristics  

XXX10
Class Recap The first lecture mainly serves as an introduction to big data, which covers various perspectives of the subject including introductory concept, what the students in this class are supposed to accomplish, trends in the real world, and how we define ourselves.   We also went through a class activity that we set a context and to distinguish people by constructing a distance equation.   Some Details and Comments Content I The most memorable part of the lecture to me was that Venn diagram that shows what makes a data scientist. Basically, computer science skills/programming skills, mathematical knowledges/probability understandings, and domain knowledge make up a data scientist. Of course, domain knowledge in this case is Economics knowledge. Domain knowledge determines field of application.  Comments Professor Iqbal also mentioned that the demand for data scientists are largely increasing. However, it is very hard, as I think, to master all three skills at the same time as a data scientist. This makes me think what kind of data scientists do industries really need. Do industries need persons who master all these skills, or just persons who may just master one or two subjects but can interpret all these subjects. It is important to deliver an answer to a problem, said Professor Iqbal. Is it similarly crucial for a data scientist to fix some random problems that could be caused by any stage? For example, a computer scientist who not only could deliver an application, but also fix any problems, caused either by hardware or by software, that associated with the application.   Content II Professor Iqbal went through the syllabus with the class, and give some sentences on several specific topics such as matching mechanism for dating websites, neural network for artificial intelligence, and so on.  Comments Professor Iqbal did not go into any details since we may learn some of these later in this quarter. At this very beginning stage, I have a naive question that do data scientists need to know why an application, say a financial application, is outdated. It is commonly known that an algorithm in a financial application is not that long-lived. An algorithm can be outdated after one-year usage. When the prediction is not good anymore, we could just abandon that algorithm. However, do data scientists need to know why? I think it is very hard to understand which output is caused by which input, because the application should have many layers of logics and connections. However, at the same time it is created by data scientists. Therefore, I have this question. Is it necessary or possible for data scientists to go through the layers and give a "why".  

XXX11
The first day class begins with a brief introduction of ourselves and the contents that the course is planned to cover. Besides explaining the syllabus, Dr. Rahed Iqbal also briefly introduced the works of a data scientist and Python.  Dr. Iqbal then give some real-life examples of where data science is used in multiple industries: Morgan Stanley, Airbnb and more. He also discussed how economists would benefit from data analysis.  We are now in the era of information and biotech. I firmly believe that those who succeed in modern society are those who holds the most information and analyze it. Data science would be more and more demanded; and people from more industries would benefit from data science.  After the introduction, we started our first group work: determining the application measuring the similarity and difference between people. Our group choose to use a distance function to describe how two persons are different in regards of personalities, gender, height, eyesight and racial.  After class, I installed Python and completed the "Hello World!" practice. Surprisingly, I found Python very intuitive and easy to navigate. I've heard many people saying Python is hard but, to me, it feels more natural to code in Python than in R or C++. I'm looking forward to learning more about Python and get more feelings about it.  The first class is very impressive to me. Big data feels more interesting to me after Dr. Iqbal introduced machine learning, deep learning, sentiment analysis and data visualization. I think that in the following 10 weeks I would learn many useful skills; and the course would definitely help me in my career   
